Southern California Edison
Rosemead, California       (U 338-E)
Revised Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No. 86406-E
Cancelling Revised Cal. P.U.C. Sheet No. 85856-E
Rule 9 Sheet 1
RENDERING AND PAYMENT OF BILLS
(Continued)
(To be inserted by utility)    Issued By (To be inserted by Cal. PUC)
Advice 4882-E-A Michael Backstrom Date Submitted Jun 28, 2023
Decision Vice President Effective Jul 27, 2023
Resolution
 
 
A. Rendering of Bills. 
 
1. Metered Service.  Bills and Summary Bills for metered service will be based on meter 
registrations.  Meters will be read as required for the preparation of regular bills, 
opening bills, and closing bills.  It may not be possible always to read meters on the 
same day of the month or at intervals of equal numbers of days.  Level Pay Plan Bills 
are based on meter registrations but are determined as described in Section E of the 
tariff.    
 
2. Service Period.  Bills and Summary Bills for electric service will normally be rendered 
on a monthly basis; except that SCE may render bills more or less frequently at the 
option of SCE.   
 
3. Daily Rate Schedules.  Bills and Summary Bills for accounts on rate schedules with 
daily charges will be billed on a daily basis and will be computed on the number of 
days in the service period.  No pro rata computation is required.   
 
4. Monthly Rate Schedules.  Bills and Summary Bills for accounts on rate schedules 
with monthly charges will normally be billed for a monthly billing period. 
 
a. Monthly Billing Period.  A monthly billing period will contain 27 to 33 days.  
 
Bills and Summary Bills for accounts which are normally billed for a monthly 
billing period, including accounts based on measured monthly demand, will 
be calculated on a pro rata computation for other than a monthly billing period 
except as specified in Rule 22, Section E.13. 
 
b. Pro Rata Computation.  Where a pro rata computation is made, the billing will 
be computed in accordance with the applicable rate schedule, but the size of 
the energy blocks, and the amount of the monthly charges and credits 
specified therein, will be prorated on the basis of the ratio of the number of 
days in the billing period to the number of days in a monthly billing period.  
For this purpose, an average monthly billing period of 30 days, may be used 
unless otherwise provided in the tariff schedules.   
 
5. Accumulative Amount Due.  SCE reserves the right to accumulate bills until the total 
amount due exceeds $2.00.   
 
6. Electronic Billing.  A bill presentment method that allows customers to receive and 
view Bills and Summary Bills electronically and to no longer receive paper bills.  All 
charges that would have appeared on the paper bill, along with all legal and 
mandated notices, are provided with the electronic bill.  However, all discontinuance 
of service notices are delivered separately in accordance with the provisions of Rule 8 
and Rule 11, and will be provided electronically to Customers enrolled in Electronic 
Billing.  Customers who make an electronic payment may be automatically enrolled in 
Electronic Billing after the next regular billing cycle following SCE’s receipt of the 
electronic payment.  SCE employees and retirees may be automatically enrolled in 
Electronic Billing. Customers, SCE employees and retirees may choose to end 
participation in Electronic Billing at any time by contacting SCE, and such requests 
will be effective the next regular billing cycle after the request is processed by SCE. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(T) 
(T) 
 