PDF PAGE 7
PRELIMINARY STATEMENT
1. Rate Applicability and Rules: The application, interpretation and administration of the
provisions herein are subject to such rules and regulations as may be provided and
prescribed by the Director of Utilities of the City of Azusa and as approved by the City
Council of the City of Azusa.
2. Definition of Customer: The term "customer" is hereby defined as meaning a person,
private or public corporation, co-partnership, unincorporated association, the United
States, the State of California, any County or any governmental agency who makes written
application and is entitled to service under the Utility's rules.
3. Temporary or Speculative Service: Service will not be rendered in temporary or
speculative loads unless such customer shall first sign an "Agreement for Installation and
Removal of Electric Distribution Facilities for Supplying Electrical Energy for Power and
Lighting Service", and advance the "up and down" cost of installing and removing the
necessary facilities to serve such loads.
4. Contracts: The City may require a contract as a condition of service for any type of load
to be served.
5. The Director of Utilities may establish and enforce charges for furnishing electricity and
water to any installation of a character not adequately provided for by these rules and rates,
provided that such charges shall be consistent with the rates and charges prescribed herein.
6. Application of Power Cost Adjustment: The Power Cost Adjustment (PCA) is a charge
per KWH which is used to adjust Azusa's electric rates for the actual cost of purchasing
and generating electric power and energy to serve Azusa's customers. The PCA may be
either positive or negative to reflect actual and projected changes in power costs.
7. Official Time: Azusa Light & Water recognizes as its official referenced time standard for
all service metering and transactional activities the time as recorded by the United States
Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and the
U.S. Naval Observatory (USNO).
2
Updated: 01/01/2025

PDF PAGE 8
ELECTRIC RATE SCHEDULES
SCHEDULE D
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE
(Approved by Resolution No. 09-C65)
(Approved by Resolution No. UB-01-2018)
Applicability:
This schedule is applicable to domestic service including lighting, heating, cooking, and
power or combination thereof in a single-family accommodation.
Territory:
Within the electric service territory of the City of Azusa.
Rate:
Minimum Charge: per meter, per month $5.80
Energy Charge:
First 250 kWh, per kWh 10.91¢
All excess kWh, per kWh 14.87¢
Special Conditions:
1. The above rates are subject to fuel cost adjustment.
2. A State Surcharge Tax may be added to the above rates.
3. A State Public Benefit Program Charge may be added to the above rates.
U pdated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 1

PDF PAGE 9
SCHEDULE WH/SH
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE FOR WATER AND/OR SPACE HEATING
(Approved by Resolution No. 09-C65)
(Approved by Resolution No. UB-01-2018)
Applicability:
This schedule is applicable to domestic use of electricity as sole source of energy, other
than solar for water and/or space heating. It is supplemental to Schedule D.
Territory:
Within the electric service territory of the City of Azusa.
Rate:
Minimum Charge: per meter per month $5.80
Energy Charge:
First 250 kWh, per kWh 10.91¢
Allowance for water heating, per month*
250 kWh, per kWh 10.91¢
Allowance for space heating, per month*
550 kWh, per kWh 10.91¢
All excess kWh, per kWh 14.87¢
*From November 1 to April 30
Special Conditions:
1. The above rates are subject to fuel cost adjustment.
2. A State Surcharge Tax may be added to the above rate.
3. Residence requesting discount rate shall be verified by City employee of its heating
equipment on premises.
Up dated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 2

PDF PAGE 10
SCHEDULE RL
RESIDENTIAL SERVICE WITH LIFE-SUPPORT DEVICES
(Approved by Resolution No. 09-C65)
(Approved by Resolution No. UB-01-2018)
This schedule is applicable to residential use of electricity for life-support devices in addition to
lighting, heating, cooking and power or combination thereof in a single-family accommodation.
Territory:
Within the electric service territory of the City of Azusa
Rate:
Minimum Charge: per meter per month $5.80
Energy Charge:
First 250 kWh, per kWh 10.91¢
Next 150 kWh, per kWh additional allowance
10.91¢
for Life Support Devices, per month
All excess kWh, per kWh 14.87¢
Special Conditions:
1. Each eligible residential customer may be allowed an additional lifeline quantity of
electricity, upon application to the utility where such customer provides certification that
full-time resident of the household regularly requires the use of an essential life-support
device which is defined below, including heating and/or cooling as medically required for
listed serious illnesses:
Aerosol tents IPPB machines Pressure pumps
Apnea monitors Iron lungs Quadriplegia
Compressors Kidney dialysis machines Respirators (all types)
Compromising Immune Life-threatening illnesses Scleroderma
System illnesses Motorized wheelchairs Suction machines
Heart monitors Multiple Sclerosis Ultrasonic nebulizers
Hemodialysis machines Paraplegia
Electrostatic nebulizers Pressure pads
Up dated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 3

PDF PAGE 11
Schedule RL (continued)
Procedure for Certification:
The Utility may require that:
a. The customer have a medical doctor or osteopath licensed to practice medicine in
the State of California provide the Utility with a letter, acceptable to the Utility,
describing the type of regularly required life-support device and the utilization
requirement in detail; or
b. County, State or Federal agencies, using an established notification letter to electric
utilities, provide the Utility with information relative to patients who regularly
require the use of a life-support device in the house.
Upon receipt of the above certification, the Utility shall within 30 days add the
incremental monthly lifeline usage allowance to the customer's first tier quantity.
The Utility may require a new or renewed application and/or certification, when
needed in the opinion of the Utility.
2. Verification: Not more than one lifeline quantity will be allowed for each single-family
dwelling or accommodation on the premises. The number of single-family accommodations
on the premises and the existence of the specified end use equipment required to obtain the
lifeline allowance of electricity, as set forth on the applicable rate schedules are subject to
on-site verification by the Utility.
3. Termination of Use: Customers shall give the Utility notice of termination of use of
equipment or devices. In the event the Utility ascertains that the customer is not eligible
for such additional lifeline quantity, such customer may be re-billed as if no such
additional lifeline quantity had been allowed.
4. The above rates are subject to fuel cost adjustment.
5. A State Surcharge Tax may be added to the above rates.
Up dated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 4

PDF PAGE 12
SCHEDULE G
GENERAL SERVICE
(Approved by Resolution No. 09-C65)
(Approved by Resolution No. UB-01-2018)
Applicability:
Applicable to single and three-phase general service including lighting and power.
Territory:
Within the electric service territory of the City of Azusa
Rate G-1:
Customer Charge: per meter per month $10.00
Energy Charge (to be added to customer charge)
First 500 kWh, per kWh 16.50¢
All excess kWh, per kWh 14.30¢
Minimum Charge:
The monthly minimum charge shall be the monthly customer charge.
Rate G-2:
Demand Charge:
First 20 KW or less of billing demand No Charge
Additional KW of billing demand, per KW $9.75
Energy Charge:
First 500 kWh, per kWh 16.89¢
Next 4,500 kWh, per kWh 14.98¢
Additional kWh, per kWh 9.50¢
Minimum Charge:
The monthly minimum charge shall be $167.81 if the energy charge is less than
$167.81.
Up dated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 5

PDF PAGE 13
Schedule G (continued)
Special Conditions:
1. Service will be supplied at one standard voltage through one meter.
2. Rate G-2 is applicable when a demand meter is installed in accordance with Condition 3.
3. A maximum demand meter will be installed when, in the opinion of the Utility, the
customer's load and use characteristics indicate that the maximum demand may exceed 20
KW or when the customer requests a demand rate.
4. The billing demand of the month shall be the maximum kilowatt measured in the 15-
minute interval in that month, but not less than 50% of the highest demand established in
the preceding 11 months. Billing demand shall be determined to the nearest 1/10 KW.
5. When the use of energy is seasonal or intermittent, no adjustment will be made for a
temporary discontinuance of service. Any customer, prior to resuming service within 12
months after such service was discontinued, will be required to pay all charges which
would have been billed if service had not been discontinued.
6. The above rates are subject to fuel cost adjustments.
7. A State Surcharge Tax may be added to the above rates.
U pdated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 6

PDF PAGE 14
SCHEDULE GL
LARGE GENERAL SERVICE
(Approved by Resolution No. 09-C65)
(Approved by Resolution No. UB-01-2018)
Applicability:
Applicable to single and three-phase general service including lighting and power. This
schedule is mandatory for all customers whose monthly maximum demand has exceeded
200 KW for any 3 months during the preceding 12 months and whose average demand for
the preceding 12 months also exceeds 200 KW. Any customer whose monthly maximum
demand has fallen below 200 KW for any 3 months during the preceding 12 months and
whose average demand for the preceding 12 months also is less than 200 KW may be
required to take service on Schedule G-2.
Territory:
Within the electric service territory of the City of Azusa.
Rate:
(Identical to Rate G-2 with the exception of minimum charge and power factor adjustment.)
Minimum Charge: The monthly minimum charge shall be the monthly demand charge or
$167.81, whichever is greater.
Special Conditions:
1. Service will be supplied at one standard voltage through one meter.
2. Billing Demand: The billing demand in any month shall be the average kilowatt input
indicated or recorded by instruments to be supplied, owned and maintained by the utility
and at the Utility's expense upon the consumer's premises adjacent to the watt-hour meter,
in the 15-minute interval in which the consumption of electric energy is greater than in any
other 15-minute interval in the month, but not less than 50% of the highest billing demand
in the preceding 11 months. Billing demand shall be determined to the nearest KW.
Whenever the measured maximum demand has exceeded 400 KW for 3 consecutive
months and thereafter until it has fallen below 300 KW for 12 consecutive months, a 30-
minute interval will be used. Where the demand is intermittent or subjected to violent
fluctuations, the maximum demand may be based on a shorter interval.
U pdated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 7

PDF PAGE 27
SCHEDULE PCA
POWER COST ADJUSTMENT
(Adopted by Resolution No. 10-C39)
(Approved by Resolution No. UB-08-2017)
(Approved by Resolution No. UB-01-2018)
Applicability:
This schedule is applicable to all electric customers served by Azusa Light & Water. Each
customer shall pay the applicable rate plus a Power Cost Adjustment (PCA) for each kilowatt-
hour (kWh) delivered to the customer. The adjustment shall be the product of the total kWh
for which the bill is rendered times the PCA amount (cents per kWh).
The purpose of the PCA is to adjust for increases/decreases to the utility’s wholesale power-
related costs.
Territory:
Within the electric service territory of the City of Azusa.
Effective rate for January 1, 2025 through June 30, 2025 is as follows:
Power Cost Adjustment per kWh: $0.06137
Rate:
The PCA billing factor for any given semi-annual period (i.e. six month period) shall be
calculated as follows:
PCA = (a) - (c) + (d)
(b) (e)
Where:
(a) Equals the utility’s projected “power supply related costs” (PS Costs) for the fiscal year.
(b) Equals projected retail energy sales (in kWh) for the fiscal year.
(c) Equals the baseline energy cost for the utility. At January 1, 2025, this amount is $0.06137
per kWh.
(d) A “true-up” equaling the difference between actual and budgeted PS Costs for the prior six
month true-up period. (The true-up for the May – October period is implemented during
the following January – June period. The true-up for the November – April period is
implemented during the following July – December period.)
U pdated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 20

PDF PAGE 28
Schedule PCA (continued)
(e) Equals the projected sales level (in kWh) for the applicable six month period of
implementation of the “true up” determined in paragraph “d” above.
The PCA for any semi-annual period shall be adjusted to reflect franchise fees
and in lieu of transfer costs. At January 1, 2025 this amount is ten (10) percent.
“Power supply related costs” shall include all costs of power supply including, but not limited
to, costs of power production, power purchases, transmission, losses, CAISO, capacity, REC’s,
environmental allowances, and dispatch & scheduling; reduced by third party power sales
revenue.
U pdated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 21

PDF PAGE 37
SCHEDULE PBC
PUBLIC BENEFIT CHARGE
(Approved by Resolution 13-C83)
Applicability:
This schedule is applicable to all electric customers served by Azusa Light & Water. Each
customer shall pay the applicable rate plus a Public Benefit Charge (PBC) for each kilowatt-
hour (kWh) delivered to the customer. The adjustment shall be the product of the total kWh
for which the bill is rendered times the PBC amount (cents per kWh).
The purpose of the PBC is to cover the related cost of PBC programs in the following four
categories:
• Cost-effective demand-side management services to promote energy
efficiency and energy conservation
• New investment in renewable energy resources and technologies consistent
with existing statutes and regulations which promote those resources and
technologies
• Research, development and demonstration programs for the public interest to
advance science or technology which is not adequately provided by
competitive and regulated markets
• Services provided for low-income electricity customers, including, but not
limited to, energy efficiency services, education, weatherization and rate
discounts.
Territory:
Within the electric service territory of the City of Azusa.
Public Benefit Charge Amount Effective July 1, 2024 thru June 30, 2025:
Public Benefit Charge per kWh: $0.00591
Rate:
The Public Benefit billing factor for any fiscal year beyond 2014 shall be calculated as
follows:
PBC = (a) x (b)
Where:
(a) Equals the utility’s total electricity revenue budgeted for the upcoming fiscal year.
(b) Equals the Legislative’s funding goal (currently 2.85%).
U pdated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 30

PDF PAGE 38
Schedule PBC (continued)
Special Conditions:
1. The Public Benefit Charge Amount shall be administratively updated on July 1 of each year
upon the signature of the Director of Utilities and shall be based on the total estimated
revenues for the next fiscal year and the current Legislative funding goal in place at the time
of the calculation.
2. The Public Benefit Charge shall be effective from July 1 through June 30, unless otherwise
indicated.
Updated: 01/01/2025 Electric Rate Schedule - 31