TIT4REFI_CH4.24UNUTSPACFU


TIT4REFI_CH4.24UNUTSPACFU_4.24.010SHTI
This chapter shall be known as the "light and power surtax ordinance." (Ord. 4778 § 1, 1966)

TIT4REFI_CH4.24UNUTSPACFU_4.24.020SURA
Every bill for light and power under "the light and power rate ordinance" shall be
               subject to a surtax at the following rates: First $1,000 of monthly bill 2% Next $4,000 of monthly bill 1 ½% Next $20,000 of monthly bill 1% Over $25,000 of monthly bill ½% No surtax shall be charged or collected on monthly bills totalling less than $5.00,
                  nor shall such surtax be charged or collected on bills rendered under Section 7 of
                  "the light and power rate ordinance." (Ord. 4778 § 2, 1966)

TIT4REFI_CH4.24UNUTSPACFU_4.24.030TAADBI
The surtax imposed by this chapter shall be collected by adding the same to the light
               and power, water and refuse collection bills. The fees added to such bills shall be
               for the period covered by such bills and shall be payable at the same time and in
               the same manner as such bills. (Ord. 4778 § 3, 1966)

TIT4REFI_CH4.24UNUTSPACFU_4.24.040TABECIDE
The tax imposed by this chapter shall be a civil debt owing to the city from the occupant
               of the property or from the owner, as the case may be. (Ord. 4778 § 4, 1966)

TIT4REFI_CH4.24UNUTSPACFU_4.24.050FUCR
The finance director is authorized and directed to create a special activity fund
               for the following purposes: Additions to, and construction and extension of underground
               utility lines; conversion of overhead to underground utilities; street lighting improvements
               in connection with such conversions; and replacement and repair of underground utility
               lines in connection with such conversions within the city. All moneys hereafter collected
               pursuant to this chapter shall be deposited in said fund. (Ord. 5234 § 1, 1975: Ord. 4882 § 1, 1968: Ord. 4859 § 1, 1968: Ord. 4778 § 5, 1966)

TIT4REFI_CH4.24UNUTSPACFU_4.24.060RETRCO
The general manager and chief engineer of the municipal light and power department
               shall give a monthly report to the city controller of the total amount of tax billed
               and the total of such collections not later than 30 days after the end of the month
               reported. He shall also concurrently transfer all moneys received hereunder to the
               city controller, less the direct costs to the department. (Ord. 4778 § 6, 1966)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA


TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.010DE
Whenever used in this chapter the following words shall have the meanings indicated: A. "Electrical corporation" and "water corporation" have the same meanings as defined
                  in Sections 218 and 241, respectively, of the Public Utilities Code of the state,
                  as said sections existed on January 1, 1969. "Electrical corporation" and "water corporation"
                  includes any municipality or franchised agency engaged in the selling or supplying
                  of electrical power or water to a service user. B. "Service supplier" means a person required to collect and remit a tax imposed by this
                  chapter. C. "Service user" means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter. D. "Tax administrator" means the revenue administrator of the city. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.020STLITRSITA
A. There is imposed a street light and traffic signal tax upon every person using electrical
               energy in the city, hereinafter the "tax." The tax imposed by this chapter shall be
               at the rate of 5 percent of the charges made for such energy and shall be paid by
               the person paying for such energy. "Charges," as used in this chapter, shall include
               charges made for (1) metered energy and (2) minimum charges for service, including
               customer charges, service charges, demand charges, standby charges, and annual and
               monthly charges. B. As used in this chapter, the term "using electrical energy" does not mean the storage
               of such energy by a person in a battery owned or possessed by him for use in an automobile
               or other machinery or device apart from the premises upon which the energy was received;
               provided, however, that the term includes the receiving of such energy for the purpose
               of using it in the charging of batteries. The term does not include electricity used
               in water pumping by water corporations; nor does the term include the mere receiving
               of such energy by an electrical corporation at a point within the city for resale. C. There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed by this chapter is
               computed, charges made by a municipal light or power department, or electric public
               utility for electrical energy used and consumed by such department or utility in the
               conduct of the business of such department or utility. D. There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed by this chapter is
               computed, energy charges and periodic service schedule adjustment charges associated
               with the customer's first 1,000 KWH of electrical usage each month. (Ord. 6439 § 1, 1991; Ord. 5486 § 1, 1980; Ord. 5408 § 1, 1979; Ord. 5373 § 1 (part),
               1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.030CO
A. Every person receiving payment of charges from a service user shall collect the amount
               of tax imposed by this chapter from the service user. B. The tax shall be collected insofar as practicable at the same time as, and along with
               the collection of charges made in accordance with regular billing practice of the
               service supplier. If the amount paid by a service user is less than the full amount
               of the charge and the tax which has accrued for the billing period, a proportionate
               share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. C. The duty to collect tax from a service user shall commence with the beginning of the
               first regular billing period applicable to that person which starts on or after the
               operative date hereof. Where a person receives more than one billing, one or more
               being for different periods than another, the duty to collect shall arise separately
               for each billing period. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.040RERE
Each service supplier shall, on or before the 20th of each month, make a return to
               the tax administrator, on forms provided by him, stating the amount of taxes billed
               by the service supplier during the preceding month. At the time the return is filed,
               the full amount of tax collected shall be remitted to the tax administrator. The tax
               administrator is authorized to require such further information as he deems necessary
               to properly determine if the tax here imposed is being levied and collected in accordance
               with this chapter. Returns and remittances are due immediately upon cessation of business
               for any reason. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.050PE
A. Taxes collected from a service user which are not remitted to the tax administrator
               on or before the due dates provided by this chapter are delinquent. B. Penalties for delinquency in remittance of any tax collected or any deficiency in
               remittance, shall attach and be paid by the person required to collect and remit at
               the rate of 15 percent of the total tax collected or imposed herein. C. The tax administrator shall have power to impose additional penalties upon persons
               required to collect and remit taxes under the provisions of this chapter for fraud
               or negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of 15 percent of the amount of
               the tax collected or as recomputed by the tax administrator. D. Every penalty imposed under the provisions of this section shall become a part of
               the tax required to be remitted. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.060ACCO
Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter
               shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such tax collected
               from a service user which has not been remitted to the tax administrator shall be
               deemed a debt owed to the city by the person required to collect and remit. Any person
               owing money to the city under the provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an
               action brought in the name of the city for the recovery of such amount. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.070FAPATDMRE
Whenever the tax administrator determines that a service user has deliberately withheld
               the amount of the tax owed by him from the amounts remitted to a service supplier,
               or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a period of 2 or
               more billing periods, or whenever the tax administrator deems it in the best interest
               of the city, he may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to collect taxes
               due under this chapter from the service users for specified billing periods. The tax
               administrator shall notify the service user that he has assumed responsibility to
               collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand payment of such taxes. The
               notice shall be served on the service user by handing it to him personally or by deposit
               of the notice in the United States mail, postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the
               service user at the address to which billing was made by the service supplier; or
               should the service user have changed his address, to his last known address. If a
               service user fails to remit the tax to the tax administrator within 15 days from the
               date of service of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of mailing if service
               is not accomplished in person, a penalty of 25 percent of the amount of the tax set
               forth in the notice shall be imposed, but not less than $5.00. The penalty shall become
               part of the tax herein required to be paid. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.080CIDE
The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be civil debts owing to the city from the
               service user. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.090RE
It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and remit to the city any
               tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of 3 years, all records
               as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as he may have been liable
               for the collection of and remittance to the tax administrator, which records the tax
               administrator shall have the right to inspect at all reasonable times. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.54STLITRSITA_4.54.100RE
A. Whenever the amount of any tax has been overpaid or paid more than once or has been
               erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax administrator under this
               chapter, it may be refunded as provided in this section. B. A person required to collect and remit taxes imposed under this chapter may claim
               a refund or take as credit against taxes collected and remitted the amount overpaid,
               paid more than once or erroneously or illegally collected or received when it is established
               in a manner prescribed by the tax administrator that the service user from whom the
               tax has been collected did not owe the tax; provided, however, that neither a refund
               nor a credit shall be allowed unless the amount of the tax so collected has either
               been refunded to the service user or credited to charges subsequently payable by the
               service user to the person required to collect and remit. C. No refund shall be paid under the provisions of this section unless the claimant establishes
               his right thereto by written records showing entitlement thereto. (Ord. 5373 § 1 (part), 1978)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA


TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.010SHTI
This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Utility Users Tax Ordinance." (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.020DE
Except where the context otherwise requires, the definitions given in this section
               govern the construction of this chapter. A. "Ancillary telecommunications services" means services that are associated with or
                  incidental to the provision, use or enjoyment of telecommunications services including,
                  but not limited to, the following: 1. Services that link two or more participants of an audio or video conference call,
                  including the provision of a telephone number. 2. Services that separately state information pertaining to individual calls on a customer's
                  billing statement. 3. Services that provide telephone number information, and/or address information. 4. Services offered in connection with one or more telecommunications services, which
                  offer advanced calling features that allow customers to identify callers and to manage
                  multiple calls and call connections. 5. Services that enable customers to store, send or receive recorded messages. B. "Billing address" means the mailing address of the service user where the service
                  supplier submits invoices or bills for payment by the customer. C. "City" means the city of Pasadena. D. "City administrator" means the city manager, or his or her authorized representative. E. "Exempt wholesale generator" has the same meaning as set forth in the Federal Power
                  Act (15 U.S.C. Section 79z-5a) and regulations thereunder. F. "Gas" means natural or manufactured gas or any alternate hydrocarbon fuel that may
                  be substituted therefor. G. "Gross annual income" means all income regardless of source and includes, but is not
                  limited to, income subject to federal and state income taxation, social security payments,
                  pensions, welfare payments, interest on tax-exempt investments, gifts and inheritances. H. "Month" means a calendar month. I. "Nonutility service supplier" means: 1. A service supplier, other than a supplier of electric distribution services to all
                  or a significant portion of the city, which generates electricity for sale to others,
                  and shall include but is not limited to any publicly-owned electric utility, investor-owned
                  utility, cogenerator, distributed generation provider, exempt wholesale generator,
                  municipal utility district, federal power marketing agency, electric rural cooperative,
                  or other supplier or seller of electricity; 2. An electric service provider (ESP), electricity broker, marketer, aggregator, pool
                  operator, or other electricity supplier other than a supplier of electric distribution
                  services to all or a significant portion of the city, which sells or supplies electricity
                  or supplemental services to electricity users within the city; and 3. A gas service supplier, aggregator, marketer or broker, other than a supplier of gas
                  distribution services to all or a significant portion of the city, which sells or
                  supplies gas or supplemental services to gas users within the city. J. "Person" means, without limitation, any domestic, nonprofit or foreign corporation;
                  firm; trust; estate; association; syndicate; joint stock company; limited liability
                  company; partnership of any kind; joint venture; club; Massachusetts business or common-law
                  trust; society; any natural individual; cooperative; receiver, trustee, guardian or
                  other representative appointed by order of any court; municipal district; or municipal
                  corporation (other than the city). K. "Service address" means the residential street address or the business street address
                  of the service user's primary place of usage. L. "Service supplier" means any entity or person that provides telephone communication,
                  electric, gas, water or video service to a user of such services within the city.
                  The term includes any entity or person required to collect, or self-collect under
                  Section 4.56.055 , and to remit a tax imposed by this chapter, including the billing agent of such
                  an entity or person in the case of electric, gas, water or video service suppliers. M. "Service user" means a person required to pay a tax imposed by this chapter. N. "Tax administrator" means the revenue administrator of the city of Pasadena. O. "Telephone communication services" means and includes the transmission, conveyance,
                  or routing of voice, data, audio, video, or any other information or signals to a
                  point, or between or among points, whether or not such information is transmitted
                  through interconnected service with the public switched network, whatever the technology
                  used, whether such transmission, conveyance or routing occurs by wire, cable, fiber-optic,
                  light wave, laser, microwave, radio wave (including, but not limited to, cellular
                  service, commercial mobile service, personal communications service (PCS), specialized
                  mobile radio (SMR), and other types of personal wireless service—see 47 USCA Section
                  332(c)(7)(C)(i)—regardless of radio spectrum used), switching facilities, satellite
                  or any other technology now existing or developed after the adoption of the ordinance
                  codified in this chapter, and includes, without limitation, fiber optic, coaxial cable,
                  and wireless. The term "telephone communication services" includes such transmission,
                  conveyance, or routing in which computer processing applications are used to act on
                  the form, code or protocol of the content for purposes of transmission, conveyance
                  or routing without regard to whether such services are referred to as voice over internet
                  protocol (VoIP) services or are classified by the Federal Communications Commission
                  as enhanced or value added, and includes video and/or data services that are functionally
                  integrated with telecommunications services. "Telephone communication services" include,
                  but are not limited to, the following services, regardless of the manner or basis
                  on which such services are calculated or billed: central office and custom calling
                  features (including but not limited to call waiting, call forwarding, caller identification
                  and three-way calling), local number portability, text messaging, ancillary telecommunication
                  services, prepaid and post-paid telecommunications services (including but not limited
                  to prepaid calling cards); mobile telecommunications service; private telecommunication
                  service; paging service; 800 service (or any other toll-free numbers designated by
                  the Federal Communications Commission); and value-added non-voice data service. For
                  purposes of this section, "private telecommunication service" means any dedicated
                  telephone communications service that entitle a user to exclusive or priority use
                  of communications channels. P. "Telephone corporation," "electrical corporation," "gas corporation," and "water corporation"
                  have the same meanings as defined in Sections 234, 218, 222, and 241, respectively,
                  of the Public Utilities Code of the state of California, as said sections existed
                  on January 1, 1969. "Electrical corporation" and "water corporation" shall be construed
                  to include any municipality or franchised agency engaged in the selling or supplying
                  of electrical power or water to a service user. Q. "Video service supplier" means any person, company, or service which provides one
                  or more channels of video programming, including any communications that are ancillary,
                  necessary or common to the use and enjoyment of the video programming, to or from
                  an address in the city, including to or from a business, home, condominium, or apartment,
                  where some fee is paid, whether directly or included in dues or rental charges for
                  that service, whether or not public rights-of-way are utilized in the delivery of
                  the video programming or communications. A "video service supplier" includes, but
                  is not limited to, multichannel video programming distributors (as defined in 47 USCA
                  Section 522(13)), open video systems (OVS) suppliers, suppliers of cable television,
                  master antenna television, satellite master antenna television, multichannel multipoint
                  distribution services (MMDS), direct broadcast satellite (to the extent allowed by
                  federal law), and other suppliers of video programming or communications (including
                  two-way communications), whatever their technology. R. "Video services" means any and all services related to the providing of video programming
                  (including origination programming), including any communications that are ancillary,
                  necessary or common to the use or enjoyment of the video programming, regardless of
                  the content of such video programming or communications. "Video services" does not
                  include services for which a tax is paid under Section 4.56.030 . (Ord. 7133 § 1, 2008: Ord. 7124 § 1, 2007; Ord. 7092 § 2, 2007; Ord. 6857 § 2 (part),
               2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.030TETA
A. There is imposed a tax upon every person, other than a telephone corporation, who
               uses telephone communication services in the city, including intrastate, interstate,
               and international telephone communication services, to the extent permitted by federal
               and state law. The telephone users tax is intended to, and does, apply to all charges
               within the city's tax jurisdiction, such as charges billed to a telephone account
               having a situs in the city as permitted by the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing
               Act of 2000, 4 U.S.C. Section 116 et seq. The tax imposed by this section shall be
               at the rate established under Section 4.56.180 (A). The tax shall apply to all charges made for such telephone communication services
               and shall be collected from the service user by the telephone communication services
               supplier or its billing agent. There is a rebuttable presumption that telephone communication
               services billed to a billing or service address in the city are used, in whole or
               in part, within the city's boundaries, and that such services are subject to taxation
               under this chapter. There is also a rebuttable presumption that telephone communication
               services sold within the city that are not billed to a billing address or provided
               to a primary physical location are used, in whole or in part, within the city's boundaries
               and that such services are subject to taxation under this chapter. B. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other services,
               credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
               service user in exchange for the telephone communication services. C. The tax administrator may, from time to time, issue and disseminate to telecommunication
               service suppliers which are subject to the tax collection requirements of this chapter
               administrative rulings identifying those telecommunication services that are subject
               to the tax of subsection A of this section. Such administrative rulings shall be consistent
               with legal nexus and laws pertaining to telephone communications services and shall
               not impose a new tax, revise an existing tax methodology, or increase an existing
               tax, except as allowed by California Government Code Section 53750(h)(2) and (h)(3)
               or other law. The tax administrator may consider state-wide interpretive rules and
               guidelines promulgated by any government agency or association of government agencies
               as a factor in determining the intent of voters adopting this section. To the extent
               that the tax administrator determines that the tax imposed under this section shall
               not be collected in full for any period of time, such an administrative ruling falls
               within the tax administrator's discretion to settle disputes. The tax administrator's
               exercise of prosecutorial forbearance under this chapter does not constitute a change
               in taxing methodology for purposes of Government Code Section 53750(h), and the city
               does not waive or abrogate its ability to impose the telephone users' tax in full
               as a result of issuing such administrative rulings and may suspend such rulings and
               recommence collection of the tax without additional voter approval. D. The following shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section: 1. Charges paid for by inserting coins in coin-operated telephones available to the public
               with respect to local telephone service, or with respect to long distance telephone
               service if the charge for such long distance telephone service is less than 25 cents;
               except that where such coin-operated telephone service is furnished for a guaranteed
               amount, the amounts paid under such guarantee plus any fixed monthly or other periodic
               charge shall be subject to the tax. 2. Except with respect to local telephone service, on any charges for services used in
               the collection of news for the public press, or a news ticker service furnishing a
               general news service similar to that of the public press, or radio broadcasting, or
               in the dissemination of news through the public press, or a news ticker service furnishing
               a general news service similar to that of the public press, or by means of radio broadcasting,
               if the charge for such service is billed in writing to such person. 3. Charges for services furnished to an international organization designated under the
               International Organizations Immunities Act and defined in 22 USCA 288 or to the American
               National Red Cross. 4. Charges for any long distance telephone service which originates within a combat zone,
               as defined in Section 112 of the Internal Revenue Code, from a member of the Armed
               Forces of the United States performing service in such combat zone, as determined
               under such section, provided a certificate, setting forth such facts as the Secretary
               of the U.S. Treasury may by regulations prescribe, is furnished to the person receiving
               such payment. 5. Charges for any long distance telephone service to the extent that the amount so paid
               is for use by a common carrier, telephone or telegraph company, or radio broadcasting
               station or network in the conduct of its business as such. 6. Amounts paid by a nonprofit hospital for services furnished to such organization.
               For purposes of this subsection, the term "nonprofit hospital" means a hospital referred
               to in Internal Revenue Code Section 170(b)(1)(A)(iii) which is exempt from income
               tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (a). 7. Charges for services or facilities furnished to the government of any state, or any
               political subdivision thereof, or the District of Columbia. 8. Charges paid by a nonprofit educational organization for services or facilities furnished
               to such organization. For purposes of this subsection, the term "nonprofit educational
               organization" means an educational organization described in Internal Revenue Code
               Section 170(b)(1)(A)(ii) which is exempt from income tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (a). The term also includes a school operated as an activity of an organization described
               in Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (c)(3) which is exempt from income tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 501 (a), if such school normally maintains a regular faculty and curriculum and normally
               has a regularly enrolled body of pupils or students in attendance at the place where
               its educational activities are regularly carried on. 9. Charges for telephone channel facilities used by a cable television corporation in
               supplying cable television service to its customers. 10. Charges for "private mobile radio service" (as defined in Part 20 of Title 47 of the
               Code of Federal Regulations) or "private mobile service" (as defined in 47 USCA Section
               332(d)) which is not interconnected to the public switched network. E. To prevent actual multi-jurisdictional taxation of telephone communication services
               subject to tax under this section, any service user, upon proof to the tax administrator
               that the service user has previously paid the same tax in another American jurisdiction
               on such telephone communication services, shall be allowed a credit against the tax
               imposed to the extent of the amount of such tax legally imposed in such other jurisdiction;
               provided, however, the amount of credit shall not exceed the tax owed to the city
               under this section. This chapter shall be construed broadly in favor of the imposition
               and collection of the utility users tax to the fullest extent permitted by California
               and federal law, and as it may change from time to time. F. The tax on telephone communication services imposed by this section shall be collected
               from the service user by the service supplier. The amount of tax collected in one
               (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator, and must be received by the
               tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month. G. For purposes of imposing a tax or establishing a duty to collect and remit a tax under
               this subchapter, "substantial nexus" and "minimum contacts" shall be construed broadly
               in favor of the imposition, collection and/or remittance of the utility users tax
               to the fullest extent permitted by state and federal law, and as that law may change
               from time to time by judicial interpretation or by statutory enactment. Any telephone
               communication service (including VoIP) used by a person with a service address in
               the city, which service is capable of terminating a call to another person on the
               general telephone network, shall be subject to a rebuttable presumption that "substantial
               nexus/minimum contacts" exists for purposes of imposing a tax, or establishing a duty
               to collect and remit a tax, under this chapter. A service supplier shall be deemed
               to have sufficient activity in the city to be obligated to collect and remit the tax
               imposed by this chapter if it does any of the following: maintains or has within the
               city, directly or through an agent or subsidiary, a place of business of any nature;
               solicits business in the city by employees, independent contractors, resellers, agents
               or other representatives; solicits business in the city by means of advertising that
               is broadcast or relayed from a transmitter within the city or distributed from a location
               within the city; or advertises in newspapers or other periodicals printed and published
               within the city or through materials distributed in the city by means other than the
               United States mail. (Ord. 7133 § 2, 2008: Ord. 7092 § 3, 2007: Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.035EXINACTETA
Nothing in Section 4.56.030 (Telephone tax) is intended to include charges for Internet access within the scope
               of taxable charges for telephone communications services. (Ord. 7124 § 2, 2007)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.040ELTA
A. There is imposed a tax upon every person using electricity in the city. The tax imposed
               by this section shall be at the rate established under Section 4.56.180 (A). The tax shall apply to all charges made for such electricity, and for any supplemental
               services or other associated activities directly related to and/or necessary for the
               provision of electricity to the service user, which are provided by a service supplier
               or nonutility service supplier to a service user. The tax shall be collected from
               the service user by the service supplier or nonutility service supplier, or its billing
               agent. B. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall apply to all services, components
               and items that are: (1) necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric
               service; or, (2) currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled
               rate for electric service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers.
               The term "charges" shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges: a. Energy charges; b. Distribution or transmission charges; c. Metering charges; d. Standby, reserves, firming, ramping, voltage support, regulation, emergency, or other
               similar minimum charges for services; e. Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
               demand charges, fuel or other cost adjustments, power exchange charges, independent
               system operator (ISO) charges, stranded investment or competitive transition charges
               (CTC), public purpose program charges, nuclear decommissioning charges, trust transfer
               amounts (bond financing charges), franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and
               monthly charges, and other charges, fees and surcharges which are necessary to or
               common for the receipt, use and enjoyment of electric service; and, f. Charges, fees, or surcharges for electricity services or programs, which are mandated
               by the California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
               whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item
               basis on the customer billing. C. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other services,
               credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
               service user in exchange for the electricity or services related to the provision
               of such electricity. D. The tax administrator, from time to time, may survey the electric service suppliers
               to identify the various unbundled billing components of electric retail service that
               they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the city,
               and the charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by state or federal
               regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such electric service. The tax administrator,
               thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such electric service suppliers an administrative
               ruling identifying those components and items which are: 1. Necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of electric service; or, 2. Currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for electric
               service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for
               such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection A of this section. E. As used in this section, the term "using electricity" shall not be construed to include
               electricity used in water pumping by water corporations; nor shall the term include
               the mere receiving of such electricity by an electrical corporation at a point within
               the city for resale. There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed
               in this section is computed, charges made by a municipal light or power department,
               or electric public utility for electricity used and consumed by such department or
               utility in the conduct of the business of such department or utility. F. The tax on electricity provided by a nonutility service supplier not under the jurisdiction
               of this chapter shall be collected and remitted in the manner set forth in Section 4.56.055 of this chapter. All other taxes on charges for electricity imposed by this section
               shall be collected from the service user by the electric service supplier or its billing
               agent. The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator,
               and must be received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day
               of the following month; or, at the option of the person required to collect and/or
               remit the tax, such person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the
               tax billed in the previous month or upon the payment pattern of the service user,
               which must be received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th)
               day of the following month, provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted
               payment or request for credit, as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each
               calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by the tax administrator, may be applied
               against any subsequent tax bill that becomes due. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.050GATA
A. There is imposed a tax upon every person using gas in the city which is transported
               and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this section
               shall be at the rate established under Section 4.56.180 (A). The tax shall apply to all charges made for such gas, including all services
               related to the storage, transportation and delivery of such gas. The tax shall be
               collected from the service user by the service supplier or nonutility service supplier,
               or its billing agent. B. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall apply to all services, components
               and items for gas service that are: 1. Necessary or common to the receipt, use and enjoyment of gas service; or, 2. Currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for gas
               service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term "charges"
               shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges: a. The commodity charges for purchased gas, or the cost of gas owned by the service user
               (including the actual costs attributed to drilling, production, lifting, storage,
               gathering, trunkline, pipeline, and other operating costs associated with the production
               and delivery of such gas), which is delivered through a gas pipeline distribution
               system; b. Gas transportation charges (including interstate charges to the extent not included
               in commodity charges); c. Storage charges; provided, however, that the service supplier shall not be required
               to apply the tax to any charges for gas storage services when the service supplier
               cannot, as a practical matter, determine the jurisdiction where such stored gas in
               ultimately used; but it shall be the obligation of the service user to self-collect
               the amount of tax not applied to any charge for gas storage by the service supplier
               and to remit the tax to the appropriate jurisdiction; d. Capacity or demand charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment
               charges, transition charges, customer charges, minimum charges, annual and monthly
               charges, and any other charges, which are necessary or common to the receipt, use
               and enjoyment of gas service; and, e. Charges, fees, or surcharges for gas services or programs, which are mandated by the
               California Public Utilities Commission or the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission,
               whether or not such charges, fees, or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item
               basis on the customer billing. C. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other services,
               credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
               service user in exchange for the gas or services related to the delivery of such gas. D. The tax administrator, from time to time, may survey the gas service suppliers to
               identify the various unbundled billing components of gas retail service that they
               commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the city, and
               the charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by state or federal
               regulatory agencies as a condition of providing such gas service. The tax administrator,
               thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such gas service suppliers an administrative
               ruling identifying those components and items which are: 1. Necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of gas service; or, 2. Currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for gas
               service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for
               such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection A of this section. E. There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is
               computed: 1. Charges made for gas which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline distribution
               system; and 2. Charges made by a gas public utility for gas used and consumed in the conduct of business
               of gas public utilities. F. The tax that is calculated on charges for gas provided by self-production or by a
               nonutility service supplier not under the jurisdiction of this chapter shall be collected
               and remitted in the manner set forth in Section 4.56.055 . All other taxes on charges for gas imposed by this section shall be collected from
               the service user by the gas service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax
               collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator, and must be
               received by the tax administrator, on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following
               month; or, at the option of the person required to collect and/or remit the tax, such
               person shall remit an estimated amount of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous
               month or upon the payment pattern of the service user, which must be received by the
               tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month, provided
               that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit, as appropriate,
               within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit, if approved by
               the tax administrator, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill that becomes
               due. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.055COTASEUSREDIPUGAEL
A. Any service user subject to the tax imposed by Section 4.56.040 or by Section 4.56.050 , which produces gas or electricity for self-use; which receives gas or electricity,
               including any related supplemental services, directly from a nonutility service supplier
               not under the jurisdiction of this chapter; or which, for any other reason, is not
               having the full tax collected and remitted by its service supplier, a nonutility service
               supplier, or its billing agent on the use of gas or electricity, including any related
               supplemental services, in the city, shall report said fact to the tax administrator
               and shall remit the tax due directly to the tax administrator within thirty (30) days
               of such use. In lieu of paying said actual tax, the service user may, at its option,
               remit to the tax administrator within thirty (30) days of such use an estimated amount
               of tax measured by the tax billed in the previous month, or upon the payment pattern
               of similar customers of the service supplier using similar amounts of gas or electricity,
               provided that the service user shall submit an adjusted payment or request for credit,
               as appropriate, within sixty (60) days following each calendar quarter. The credit,
               if approved by the tax administrator, may be applied against any subsequent tax bill
               that becomes due. B. The tax administrator may require said service user to identify its nonutility service
               supplier and provide, subject to audit, invoices, books of account, or other satisfactory
               evidence documenting the quantity of gas or electricity used, including any related
               supplemental services, and the cost or price thereof. If the service user is unable
               to provide such satisfactory evidence, or, if the administrative cost of calculating
               the tax in the opinion of the tax administrator is excessive, the tax administrator
               may determine the tax by applying the tax rate to the equivalent charges the service
               user would have incurred if the gas or electricity used, including any related supplemental
               services, had been provided by the service supplier that is the primary supplier of
               gas or electricity within the city. Rate schedules for this purpose shall be available
               from the city. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.060WATA
A. There is imposed a tax upon every person using water in the city which is transported
               and delivered through a pipeline distribution system. The tax imposed by this section
               shall be at the rate established under Section 4.56.180 (A). The tax shall apply to all charges made for such water and shall be collected
               from the service user by the service supplier, or its billing agent. B. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall apply to all services, components
               and items that are: 1. Necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water service; or, 2. Currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for water
               service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. The term "charges"
               shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges: a. Water commodity charges (potable and non-potable); b. Distribution or transmission charges; c. Metering charges; d. Customer charges, late charges, service establishment or reestablishment charges,
               franchise fees, franchise surcharges, annual and monthly charges, and other charges,
               fees and surcharges which are necessary for or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment
               of water service; and, e. Charges, fees, or surcharges for water services or programs, which are mandated by
               a water district or a state or federal agency, whether or not such charges, fees,
               or surcharges appear on a bundled or line item basis on the customer billing. C. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other services,
               credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
               service user in exchange for the water services. D. The tax administrator, from time to time, may survey the water service suppliers in
               the city to identify the various unbundled billing components of water retail service
               that they commonly provide to residential and commercial/industrial customers in the
               city, and the charges therefor, including those items that are mandated by a water
               district or a state or federal agency as a condition of providing such water service.
               The tax administrator, thereafter, may issue and disseminate to such water service
               suppliers an administrative ruling identifying those components and items which are: 1. Necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of water service; or, 2. Currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for water
               service by a local distribution company to a class of retail customers. Charges for
               such components and items shall be subject to the tax of subsection A of this section. E. There shall be excluded from the base on which the tax imposed in this section is
               computed charges made for water which is to be resold and delivered through a pipeline
               distribution system; charges made by a municipal water department, water public utility
               or a county or municipal water district for water used and consumed by such department,
               utility or district in the conduct of the business of such department, utility or
               district; and charges made for water used in the generation of electricity by an electrical
               corporation. F. The tax on water service imposed by this section shall be collected from the service
               user by the water service supplier or its billing agent. The amount of tax collected
               in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator, and must be received
               by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day of the following month. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.070VITA
A. There is imposed a tax upon every person using video services in the city from a video
               service supplier. The tax imposed by this section shall be at the rate established
               under Section 4.56.180 (A). The tax shall apply to all charges made for such video services, and shall be
               collected from the service user by the video service supplier, or its billing agent. B. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall apply to all services, components
               and items that are: 1. Necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of video service; or, 2. Currently, or historically have been, included in a single or bundled rate for video
               service by a local video service supplier to a class of retail customers. The term
               "charges" shall include, but is not limited to, the following charges: a. Franchise fees and access fees (PEG), whether designated on the customer's bill or
               not; b. Initial installation of equipment necessary for provision and receipt of video services; c. Late fees, collection fees, bad debt recoveries, and return check fees; d. Activation fees, reactivation fees, and reconnection fees; e. All programming services (e.g., basic services, premium services, audio services,
               video games, pay-per-view services, and electronic program guide services); f. Equipment leases (e.g., converters, remote devices); g. Service calls, service protection plans, name changes, changes of services, and special
               services (e.g., no promotional mail); and h. The leasing of channel access. C. As used in this section, the term "charges" shall include the value of any other services,
               credits, property of every kind or nature, or other consideration provided by the
               service user in exchange for the video services. D. The tax administrator, from time to time, may survey the video service suppliers in
               the city to identify the various components of video service that are being offered
               to customers within the city, and the charges therefor. The tax administrator, thereafter,
               may issue and disseminate to such video service suppliers an administrative ruling
               identifying those components: 1. That are necessary or common to the receipt, use or enjoyment of video service; or, 2. Which currently are, or historically have been, included in a bundled rate for video
               service by a local distribution company. Charges for such components shall be subject
               to the tax of subsection A of this section. E. The tax imposed by this section shall be collected from the service user by the video
               service supplier, its billing agent, or a reseller of such services. In the case of
               video service, the service user shall be deemed to be the purchaser of the bulk video
               service (e.g., an apartment owner), unless such service is resold to individual users,
               in which case the service user shall be the ultimate purchaser of the video service.
               The amount of tax collected in one (1) month shall be remitted to the tax administrator,
               and must be received by the tax administrator on or before the twentieth (20th) day
               of the following month. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.075EFCONOTAIT
If one or more nontaxable items are bundled or billed together with one or more taxable
               items (as provided for by this chapter) under a single charge on a customer's bill,
               the entire single charge shall be deemed taxable unless, upon the written request
               of the customer, the service supplier can reasonably identify the nontaxable component
               of the single charge based upon one or more of the following methodologies, as selected
               by the tax administrator: 1. The average industry charges for the individual nontaxable items included in the entire
                  single charge; 2. The amount of the entire single charge less the average industry charges for the individual
                  taxable items included in the entire single charge; or, 3. The service supplier's books and records that are kept in the regular course of business,
                  which must be consistent with generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.080COEX
A. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as imposing a tax upon: 1. Any person or service if imposition of such tax upon that person or service would
               be in violation of a federal or California statute, the Constitution of the United
               States or the Constitution of the state of California; and 2. The city, with the exception of the tax imposed under Section 4.56.050 upon charges made for gas used in the generation of electricity by generating plants
               wholly owned and operated by the city. B. Any service user that is exempt from the tax imposed by this chapter pursuant to subsection
               A of this section shall file an application with the tax administrator for an exemption;
               provided, however, this requirement shall not apply to a service user that is a state
               or federal agency or subdivision with a commonly recognized name. Said application
               shall be made upon a form approved by the tax administrator and shall state those
               facts, declared under penalty of perjury, which qualify the applicant for an exemption,
               and shall include the names of all utility service suppliers serving that service
               user. If deemed exempt by the tax administrator, such service user shall give the
               tax administrator timely written notice of any change in utility service suppliers
               so that the tax administrator can properly notify the new utility service supplier
               of the service user's tax exempt status. A service user that fails to comply with
               this section shall not be entitled to a refund of utility users taxes collected and
               remitted to the tax administrator from such service user as a result of such noncompliance.
               Upon request of the tax administrator, a service supplier or nonutility service supplier,
               or its billing agent, shall provide a list of the names and addresses of those customers
               which, according to its billing records, are deemed exempt from the utility users
               tax. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.090CO
The duty of service suppliers to collect and remit the taxes imposed by the provisions
               of this chapter shall be performed as follows: A. The tax shall be collected in so far as practicable at the same time as, and along
                  with the collection of charges made in accordance with regular billing practice of
                  the service supplier. If the amount paid by a service user is less than the full amount
                  of the charge and the tax which has accrued for the billing period, a proportionate
                  share of both the charge and the tax shall be deemed to have been paid. In those cases
                  where a service user has notified the service supplier of refusal to pay the tax imposed
                  on said charges, Section 4.56.130 (B) shall apply. B. The duty of a service supplier to collect tax from a service user shall commence with
                  the beginning of the first regular billing period applicable to that person which
                  starts on or after the operative date of the ordinance codified in this section. When
                  a person receives more than one billing, one or more being for different periods than
                  another, the duty to collect shall arise separately for each billing period. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.100RERE
Each person required by this chapter to remit a tax shall file a return with the tax
               administrator on forms approved by the tax administrator on or before the due date.
               The full amount of the tax owed shall be included with the return and filed with the
               tax administrator. The tax administrator is authorized to require such further information
               as he or she deems necessary to properly determine if the tax here imposed is being
               levied, collected and remitted in accordance with this chapter. Returns and remittances
               are due immediately upon cessation of business for any reason. Pursuant to Revenue
               and Tax Code Section 7284.6, the tax administrator, and its agents, shall maintain
               such filing returns as confidential information, and not subject to the Public Records
               Act. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.110PEDE
A. Taxes collected from a service user, or owed by a service user subject to Section 4.56.055 , are delinquent if not received by the tax administrator on or before the due date.
               Should the due date occur on a weekend or legal holiday, the return must be received
               by the tax administrator on or before the first regular working day following the
               weekend or legal holiday. A direct deposit, including electronic fund transfers and
               other similar methods of electronically exchanging monies between financial accounts,
               made by a service supplier in satisfaction of its obligations under this subsection
               shall be considered timely if the transfer is initiated on or before the due date,
               and the transfer settles into the city's account on or before the following business
               day. B. If the person required to collect and/or remit the utility users tax fails to collect
               the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or charges
               on the customer's billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before the due
               date, or, in the case of a service user that fails to properly self-collect and remit
               the tax under Section 4.56.055 on or before the due date, the tax administrator shall attach a penalty for such
               delinquencies or deficiencies at the rate of fifteen percent (15%) of the total tax
               that is delinquent or deficient in the remittance. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
               a person required to collect and/or remit the utility users tax shall not be subject
               to the 15% penalty and interest for an "improper assessment," if such "improper assessment"
               is voluntarily disclosed to the tax administrator, or its agent, and promptly corrected
               thereafter by such person, whether the disclosure occurs in the course of a tax administrator
               survey under Sections 4.56.030 (C), 4.56.040 (D), 4.56.050 (D), 4.56.060 (D) and 4.56.070 (D) or the disclosure is voluntarily initiated by such person. For purposes of this
               subsection, the term "voluntarily disclosed" shall mean information freely offered
               by a service supplier to the city for the purpose of increasing the accuracy of the
               service supplier's tax collection and/or remittances before the issue has been raised
               or an inquiry has been initiated by the city or any other California municipality. C. The tax administrator shall have power to impose additional penalties upon persons
               required to collect and/or remit taxes under the provisions of this chapter for fraud
               or gross negligence in reporting or remitting at the rate of fifteen percent (15%)
               of the amount of the tax collected or as recomputed by the tax administrator. D. In addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter, any person required to
               collect and/or remit any tax imposed by the provisions of this chapter who fails to
               collect the tax (by failing to properly assess the tax on one or more services or
               charges on the customer's billing) or fails to remit the tax collected on or before
               the due date, or, in the case of a service user that fails to properly self-collect
               and remit the tax under Section 4.56.055 of this chapter on or before the due date, shall pay interest at the rate of three-quarters
               of one percent (¾ %) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
               exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent,
               until paid. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.120ACCO
Any tax required to be paid by a service user under the provisions of this chapter
               shall be deemed a debt owed by the service user to the city. Any such tax collected
               from a service user which has not been remitted to the tax administrator is deemed
               a debt owed to the city by the person required to collect and remit, and shall no
               longer be a debt of the service user. Any person owing money to the city under the
               provisions of this chapter shall be liable to an action brought in the name of the
               city for the recovery of such amount plus any collection costs incurred by the city
               as a result of the person's noncompliance with this chapter, including, but not limited
               to, reasonable attorneys' fees. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.130FAPDMRE
A. Whenever the tax administrator determines that a service user has deliberately withheld
               the amount of the tax owed by him from the amounts remitted to a service supplier,
               or that a service user has failed to pay the amount of the tax for a period of two
               (2) or more billing periods, or whenever the tax administrator deems it in the best
               interest of the city, he may relieve the service supplier of the obligation to collect
               taxes due under this chapter from the service user for specified billing periods.
               The service supplier shall provide the city with the names and addresses of such service
               users and the amounts of taxes owed under the provisions of this chapter. B. The tax administrator shall notify the non-paying service user that he or she has
               assumed responsibility to collect the taxes due for the stated periods and demand
               payment of such taxes. The notice shall be served on the service user by handing it
               to him or her personally or by deposit of the notice in the United States mail, postage
               prepaid thereon, addressed to the service user at the address to which billing was
               made by the service supplier, or should the service user have changed his or her address,
               to his or her last known address. C. If a service user fails to remit the tax to the tax administrator within fifteen (15)
               days from the date of service of the notice upon him, which shall be the date of mailing
               if service is not accomplished in person, the tax administrator shall assess the delinquent
               service user for the required tax pursuant to Section 4.56.135 . (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.135AS
The tax administrator may make an assessment for taxes not paid or remitted by a person
               required to pay or remit. The tax administrator shall mail a notice of such assessment,
               which shall refer briefly to the amount of the taxes, penalties and interest imposed
               and the time and place where the assessment may be contested, to the service supplier
               and/or the service user at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing and
               shall post such notice for at least five (5) continuous days prior to the date of
               the hearing. A penalty of twenty-five percent (25%) of the amount of the tax set forth
               in the notice shall be imposed, along with interest at the rate of three-quarters
               of one percent (¾%) per month, or any fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax,
               exclusive of penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent,
               until paid, but not less than five dollars ($5.00). Any interested party having any
               objections may appear and be heard at the hearing provided his or her objection is
               filed in writing with the tax administrator prior to the time of the hearing. At the
               time fixed for considering such assessment, the tax administrator shall hear the same,
               together with any objections filed as provided in this section, and thereupon may
               confirm or modify such assessment. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.140CIDE
The taxes imposed by this chapter shall be civil debts owing to the city from the
               service user. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.150PEREKERE
A. It shall be the duty of every person required to collect and/or remit to the city
               any tax imposed by this chapter to keep and preserve, for a period of at least three
               (3) years, all records as may be necessary to determine the amount of such tax as
               he may have been liable for the collection of and remittance to the tax administrator,
               which records the tax administrator shall have the right to inspect at a reasonable
               time. B. The city may issue an administrative subpoena to compel a person to deliver, to the
               tax administrator, copies of all records deemed necessary by the tax administrator
               to establish compliance with this chapter, including the delivery of records in a
               common electronic format on readily available media if such records are kept by the
               person electronically in the usual and ordinary course of business. As an alternative
               to delivering the subpoenaed records to the tax administrator on or before the due
               date provided in the administrative subpoena, such person may provide access to such
               records outside the city on or before the due date, provided that such person shall
               reimburse the city for all reasonable travel expenses incurred by the city to inspect
               those records, including travel, lodging, meals, and other similar expenses, but excluding
               the normal salary or hourly wages of those persons designated by the city to conduct
               the inspection. C. The tax administrator, or the tax administrator's designated representative, is authorized
               to execute a nondisclosure agreement approved by the city attorney to protect the
               confidentiality of customer information pursuant to Revenue and Tax Code Sections
               7284.6 and 7284.7. The tax administrator, or the tax administrator's designated representative,
               may request from a person providing transportation or distribution services of gas
               or electricity to service users within the city, a list of the names, billing and
               service addresses, quantities of gas or electricity delivered, and other pertinent
               information, of its transportation customers within the city pursuant to Section 6354(e)
               of the California Public Utilities Code. D. If a service supplier uses a billing agent or billing aggregator to bill, collect,
               and/or remit the tax, the service supplier shall: 1. Provide to the tax administrator the name, address and telephone number of each billing
               agent and billing aggregator currently authorized by the service supplier to bill,
               collect, and/or remit the tax to the city; and, 2. Upon request of the tax administrator, deliver, or effect the delivery of, any information
               or records in the possession of such billing agent or billing aggregator that, in
               the opinion of the tax administrator, is necessary to verify the proper application,
               calculation, collection and/or remittance of such tax to the city. E. If any person subject to recordkeeping under this section unreasonably denies the
               tax administrator, or the tax administrator's designated representative, access to
               such records, or fails to produce the information requested in an administrative subpoena
               within the time specified, the tax administrator may impose a penalty of five hundred
               dollars ($500) on such person for each day following: 1. The initial date that the person refuses to provide such access; or, 2. The due date for production of records as set forth in the administrative subpoena.
               This penalty shall be in addition to any other penalty imposed under this chapter. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.155ADPODUTAAD
A. The tax administrator shall have the power and duty, and is directed, to enforce each
               and all of the provisions of this chapter. B. The tax administrator may adopt administrative rules and regulations not inconsistent
               with provisions of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing the
               payment, collection and remittance of the taxes herein imposed. A copy of such administrative
               rules and regulations shall be on file in the tax administrator's office. C. Upon a proper showing of good cause, the tax administrator may make administrative
               agreements, with appropriate conditions, to vary from the strict requirements of this
               chapter and thereby: 1. Conform to the billing procedures of a particular service supplier (or service user
               subject to Section 4.56.055 ) so long as said agreements result in the collection of the tax in conformance with
               the general purpose and scope of this chapter; or, 2. To avoid a hardship where the administrative costs of collection and remittance greatly
               outweigh the tax benefit. A copy of each such agreement shall be on file in the tax
               administrator's office, and are voidable by the tax administrator or the city at any
               time. D. The tax administrator shall determine the eligibility of any person who asserts a
               right to exemption from or a refund of, the tax imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.160RE
A. Whenever the amount of any tax imposed by this chapter has been overpaid or paid more
               than once, or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax administrator,
               it may be refunded as provided in this section. B. The tax administrator may refund any tax that has been overpaid, paid more than once,
               or has been erroneously or illegally collected or received by the tax administrator
               under this chapter, provided that no refund shall be paid under the provisions of
               this section unless the claimant or his or her guardian, conservator, executor or
               administrator has submitted a written claim to the tax administrator within one year
               of the overpayment or erroneous or illegal collection of said tax. Such claim must
               clearly establish claimant's right to the refund by written records showing entitlement
               thereto. Nothing herein shall permit the filing of a refund claim on behalf of a class
               or group of taxpayers. Where the amount of any individual refund claim is in excess
               of seventy-five thousand dollars ($75,000), city council approval shall be required
               in addition to approval by the tax administrator. C. It is the intent of the city that the one-year written claim requirement of this subsection
               be given retroactive effect; provided, however, that any claims which arose prior
               to the commencement of the one-year claims period of this section, and which are not
               otherwise barred by a then-applicable statute of limitations or claims procedure,
               must be filed with the tax administrator as provided in this subsection within ninety
               (90) days following the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter. D. The tax administrator, or the city council where the claim is in excess of seventy-five
               thousand dollars ($75,000) and the tax administrator has approved the claim, shall
               act upon the refund claim within forty-five (45) days of receipt of the refund claim.
               Said decision shall be final. The tax administrator shall give notice of the action
               in a form which substantially complies with that set forth in Government Code Section
               913. E. The filing of a written claim is a prerequisite to any suit thereon. The tax administrator
               shall give notice of the action in a form which substantially complies with that set
               forth in Government Code Section 913. Any action brought against the city pursuant
               to this section shall be subject to the provisions of Government Code Sections 945.6
               and 946. F. Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, whenever a service supplier, pursuant
               to an order of the California Public Utilities Commission, makes a refund to service
               users of charges for past utility services, the service supplier shall also refund
               to the service users the tax paid pursuant to this chapter on the amount of such refunded
               charges. The service supplier shall be entitled to claim a credit for such refunded
               taxes against the amount of tax which is due the city on the next monthly returns.
               If this chapter is repealed, the city will bear the amounts of any refundable tax. G. Notwithstanding subsections B and C of this section, a service supplier shall be entitled
               to take any overpayment as a credit against an underpayment whenever such overpayment
               has been received by the city within the three years next preceding a notice of tax
               deficiency or assessment by the tax administrator, or during any year for which the
               service supplier, at the request of the tax administrator, has executed a waiver of
               the defense of the statute of limitations with regard to any claim the city may have
               for a utility users tax. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.165AP
A. The provisions of this section apply to any assessment, decision or administrative
               ruling of the tax administrator, other than a decision relating to a refund pursuant
               to Section 4.56.160 . Any person aggrieved by any assessment, decision or administrative ruling of the
               tax administrator, other than a decision relating to a refund, shall be required to
               comply with the appeals procedure of this section. Compliance with this section shall
               be a prerequisite to a suit thereon. (See Government Code Section 935(b).) Nothing
               herein shall permit the filing of a claim or action on. behalf of a class or group
               of taxpayers. B. If any person is aggrieved by any assessment, decision or administrative ruling of
               the tax administrator, other than a decision relating to a refund; or with the failure
               of the tax administrator to grant an exemption as provided for under this chapter;
               he or she may appeal to the city administrator by filing a notice of appeal with the
               city clerk within fourteen (14) days of the date of the assessment, decision or administrative
               ruling of the tax administrator which aggrieved the service user or service supplier. C. The matter shall be set for hearing no more than thirty (30) days from the receipt
               of the appeal. The appellant shall be served with notice of the time and place of
               the hearing, as well as any relevant materials, at least five (5) calendar days prior
               to the hearing. The hearing may be continued from time to time upon mutual consent.
               At the time of the hearing, the appealing party, the tax administrator, and any other
               interested person may present such relevant evidence as he or she may have relating
               to the determination from which the appeal is taken. D. Based upon the submission of such evidence and the review of the city's files, the
               city administrator shall issue a written notice and order upholding, modifying or
               reversing the determination from which the appeal is taken. The notice shall be given
               within fourteen (14) days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall state the
               reasons for the decision. The notice shall specify that the decision is final and
               that any petition for judicial review shall be filed within ninety (90) days from
               the date of the decision in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1094.6.
               If the city administrator fails or refuses to act on a refund claim within the fourteen
               (14) day period, the claim shall be deemed to have been rejected by the city administrator
               on the fourteenth (14th) day. E. No injunction or writ of mandate or other legal or equitable process shall issue in
               any suit, action, or proceeding in any court against this city or against any officer
               of the city to prevent or enjoin the collection under this chapter of any tax or any
               amount of tax required to be collected and/or remitted. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.170SE
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of
               this chapter or any part thereof is for any reason held to be invalid, unlawful or
               unconstitutional, such decision, and the decision not to enforce such, shall not affect
               the validity of the remaining portion of this chapter or any part thereof. The city
               council declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision,
               paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one
               or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
               be declared invalid, unlawful or unconstitutional. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.180REESADTARANOCHOR
A. All tax rates provided in this chapter have been established by resolution of the
               city council and may be adjusted from time to time in conformance with the requirements
               of California Constitution Article XIII(C), California Government Code Section 53750(h)
               (2) (A), Pasadena Municipal Code Section 1.08.060 and all other applicable laws and regulations. B. If a tax under this chapter is added, repealed, increased, reduced, or the tax base
               is changed, the tax administrator shall follow the notice requirements of Public Utilities
               Code Section 799. Prior to the effective date of the ordinance change, the service
               supplier shall provide the tax administrator with a copy of any written procedures
               describing the information that the service supplier needs to implement the ordinance
               change. If the service supplier fails to provide such written instructions, the tax
               administrator, or his or her agent, shall send, by first class mail, a copy of the
               ordinance change to all collectors and remitters of the city's utility users taxes
               according to the latest payment records of the tax administrator. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.190TEREEXUTCO
A. The city council, by resolution, may grant a temporary utility users tax rebate to
               any class of service users for the purpose of easing the tax burden on such customer
               class, which is due to an unusually large increase in the service charges for a particular
               utility industry subject to the utility users tax. The city council may rebate an
               appropriate percentage of the tax prospectively for a period of no more than twelve
               (12) months. If applicable, the tax administrator shall implement the temporary tax
               rebate by giving sixty (60) day written notice to all affected service suppliers as
               required by Public Utilities Code Section 799. B. The city council shall consider the following factors in determining whether to grant
               a temporary tax rebate under this section: 1. The amount of the increase in the average billing for the utility service for which
               a rebate is being considered; 2. The severity of the burden that the increased billing and associated tax imposes on
               the customer class for which a rebate is being considered; 3. The increased expense to the city as a utility customer, which occurs as a result
               of the increase in the cost of such utility service; 4. The estimated time period that the billing increase will likely persist; 5. The forecasted and historical increases or decreases in the other sources of utility
               users tax; 6. The forecasted and historical increases or decreases in municipal tax revenues other
               than the utility users tax; 7. The overall inflation rate during relevant time periods, as measured by the Consumer
               Price Index (CPI); and, 8. Any other factor that affects the fairness or equity of granting such a temporary
               rebate. C. In a resolution granting a temporary tax rebate, the city council shall make the following
               findings: 1. The temporary tax rebate is necessary to abate a significantly increased tax burden
               on a class of service users; and 2. The temporary tax rebate shall not adversely affect the city's ability to meet its
               financial obligations as contemplated in its current budget. D. Nothing herein shall prohibit the city council from granting consecutive temporary
               rebates, provided that the city council reconsiders the factors enumerated in subsection
               B of this section, above, for each subsequent temporary rebate, and makes appropriate
               findings for each resolution. As stated in Government Code Section 9611, the enactment
               of a temporary tax rebate by the city council shall not constitute a repeal of one
               or more of the original provisions of this chapter. Upon the expiration of the time
               of the temporary tax rebate, the original provisions of this chapter shall have the
               same force and effect as if the temporary tax rebate had not been enacted. Nothing
               herein is intended to constitute a decrease in a tax, or an increase in a tax requiring
               an election approval under California Constitution Article XIIIC; and to the extent
               that any aspect of a temporary tax rebate resolution is found to invoke such a requirement,
               the entire temporary rebate resolution shall be deemed null and void ab initio, and
               there shall be no entitlement to a rebate for any service user. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.200RECU
All remedies and penalties prescribed by this chapter or which are available under
               any other provision of law or equity, including but not limited to the California
               False Claims Act (Government Code Section 12650 et seq.), are cumulative. The use
               of one or more remedies by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy for
               the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.210EXLI
Any service user who is 62 years of age or older and any service user who meets the
               criteria of disability as established by the Social Security Administration's Supplemental
               Income Program for the Aged, Blind and Disabled (Title XVI of the Social Security
               Act, as amended) shall be eligible for exemption from the taxes imposed by this chapter
               on service supplied to the service user's residence if the gross annual income per
               calendar year of the household in which such individual resides is less than the following: A. If the household has only one qualifying individual, $12,000.00; B. If the household has more than one qualifying individual, $12,000.00 plus $4,000.00
                  for each additional qualifying individual. The gross annual income of the household shall be calculated by forecasting the household's
                  income for a 12-month period starting from the date of application for the exemption:
                  actual income for the prior calendar year shall provide a basis for forecasting income,
                  but shall not be used to deny an application. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.211EXPPHEFIFITI
Applications for exemption shall be filed with the tax administrator on such forms
               as he may provide. Applications may be filed at any time after applicant: A. Attains age 62: or B. Becomes eligible for disability under the provisions of Title XVI of the Social Security
                  Act as amended. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.212EXPPONRE
Applications shall contain such information as may be required by the tax administrator
               and shall be verified by declaration under penalty of perjury. The tax administrator
               may require such additional evidence as he deems necessary or appropriate in processing
               the application. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.213EXPPEVCEIMGR
The tax administrator shall review each application and shall certify the service
               user as exempt if the eligibility requirements of Section 4.56.210 are met, except that no exemption shall be granted to a service user who is receiving
               service from a service supplier through a master meter and no exemption shall be granted
               with respect to any tax imposed by this chapter which is or has been paid by a public
               agency or where the service user receives funds from a public agency, specifically
               for the payment of such tax. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.214CEEXERSUNORE
If a service user is certified as exempt, the tax administrator shall promptly notify
               the service user's service supplier, stating the name of the service user, the address
               to which such exempt service is being supplied, the account number, if any, and such
               other information as may be necessary for the service supplier to remove the exempt
               service user from its tax billing procedure. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.215CEEXISBI
Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.56.216 , the service supplier shall, within 60 days after receipt of the aforesaid notice,
               discontinue billing the service user for taxes imposed by this chapter. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.216CEEXRITABECO
Taxes billed by the service supplier to the service user prior to removing the service
               user from its tax billing procedure shall be collected from the service user and the
               service user shall pay such taxes to the service supplier. Taxes billed to and paid
               by the service user between the time that the application for exemption is filed and
               the service supplier removes the service user from its taxing procedure will not be
               refunded to the service user. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.217CEEXURTE
Exemptions certified by the tax administrator shall continue as long as the facts
               supporting the qualification for exemption shall exist; provided, however, that the
               exemption shall automatically terminate with any change in the service address or
               residence of the exempt individual; and provided further, that such individual may
               nevertheless apply for a new exemption with each change of address or residence. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.218CEEXISDIRENVNO
Any service user who has been exempted under Sections 4.56.211 through 4.56.219 shall notify the tax administrator within 10 days of any change of fact or circumstance
               which might disqualify said individual from receiving such exemption. Any service supplier who determines by any means that a new or nonexempt service user
               is receiving service through a meter or connection, exempt by virtue of an exemption
               issued to a previous user or exempt user of the same meter or connection shall immediately
               notify the tax administrator of such fact and the tax administrator shall conduct
               an investigation to ascertain whether or not the provisions of Sections 4.56.211 through 4.56.219 have been complied with, and where appropriate, order the service supplier to commence
               collecting the tax from the nonexempt service user. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.219EXONELNVDIAUWH
The tax administrator shall have authority to demand evidence of continued eligibility
               of a service user for exemption under the provisions of Sections 4.56.211 through 4.56.219 . Such evidence may include, but need not be limited to, birth certificate, driver's
               license, copies of business records, letters or statements from the Social Security
               Administration and state, county, city and private pension administrators or unemployment
               and welfare agencies, copies of income tax returns and such other evidence concerning
               the service user or other members of his household as may tend to prove or disprove
               such eligibility. Failure to provide such evidence as is within the control of a service
               user to so provide, either directly by him or by his consent, or the consent of a
               member of his household when such evidence is requested of the service user in writing
               by the tax administrator, shall be grounds for the immediate discontinuance of the
               service user's eligibility for exemption under the provisions of Sections 4.56.211 through 4.56.219 . Evidence provided to the tax administrator by the service user may only be used
               as grounds for termination of the exemption herein provided. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.220EFDAIM
The taxes imposed by this chapter shall become imposed as of August 1, 1969, or at
               the beginning of the 1st regular billing period thereafter which would not include
               service prior to August 1, 1969. (Ord. 6857 § 2 (part), 2001)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.230EFSTFEAU
To the extent that the city's authorization to impose or collect any tax imposed under
               this chapter is expanded or limited as a result of changes in state or federal law,
               no amendment or modification of this chapter shall be required to conform the tax
               to those changes, and the tax shall be imposed and collected to the full extent of
               the city's authorization up to the full amount of the tax imposed under this chapter. (Ord. 7133 § 3, 2008)

TIT4REFI_CH4.56UTUSTA_4.56.240INAU
The city shall annually verify that the taxes owed under this chapter have been properly
               applied, exempted, collected, and remitted in accordance with this chapter, and properly
               expended according to applicable law. The annual verification shall be performed by
               a qualified independent third party and the review shall employ reasonable, cost-effective
               steps to assure compliance, including the use of sampling audits. The verification
               shall not be required of as to a service supplier where the cost of the verification
               is expected to exceed the tax revenues to be reviewed. (Ord. 7133 § 4, 2008)